Add a comprehensive README (#7)
qdrant/demo-code-search: README.md

# Code search with Qdrant

> 

Reviewer: I'd like to intro this with a "why is this different from any other search engine", maybe something like:

```suggestion

Developers need a code search tool that helps them find the right piece of code. In this README, we describe how
you can set up a tool that provides code results, in context.

```

## Online version

If you want to start with having a look at a running application, it is available here:

> **[https://code-search.qdrant.tech/](https://code-search.qdrant.tech/)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See our code search tool "in action." Navigate to
**[https://code-search.qdrant.tech/](https://code-search.qdrant.tech/)**. We've prepopulated the demo with semantic 
search terms. You can see the results, in context, even with relatively vague search terms.
```

> ## Description

Reviewer: I think you need a section on prerequisites. You've gained interest with the demo. This is the perfect place for them, something like:

```suggestion
## Prerequisites

To run this demo on your own system, install and/or set up the following components:

- `docker`
- `docker-compose`
- FastAPI
- ReactJS
- Rust parser project
- syn
- all-MiniLM-L6-v2
- microsoft/unixcoder-base
- A structured code base as a search database. For best results, you may need to refactor the code base

## Description
```

I've tried to organize all of the prerequisite packages into this intro section. @kacperlukawski , you'll need to add links... If you agree with my approach, once you've set up this list, you won't need other lines, such as "Please make sure to have Docker and Docker Composed installed your machine."

Author: @mjang Actually, having Docker, Docker Compose, Rust, and rust-analyzer is enough, as all the other components will be installed automatically when we compile/run the image. So we can make a list and remove that sentence, but it would only contain these four elements.

Reviewer: Your approach works for me. However, when I ran 

```
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
rustup component add rust-analyzer
```
I got a message that I also needed to install `rustup`. You know our readers better than I. If you think they might miss this detail, I'd add `rustup` to the list.

Actually, later in this README, I run into a `rust-analyzer` package issue...

So when running the above shell script, I could not accept the defaults. I had to change:

```
  default host triple: x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

to

```
   default host triple: stable-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

Author: @mjang `rustup` should be installed by the first line, so I would need to test it on a fresh environment. However, it's hard to predict all the system configurations, and I'm afraid we shouldn't cover the README into a detailed description for all the platforms. Can we leave it as it is?

> [Qdrant](https://qdrant.tech) is not only created to support engineers in building reliable and efficient semantic 
> search experiences but it may also be used to ease their day-to-day work. Nowadays, the amount of code required to 
> support a single project is enormous, and it is growing every day. It is hard to keep track of all the code, and it is
> even harder to find the right piece of code when you need it. **Keywords do not always work, and sometimes, you need to
> find a piece of code that does a specific thing, but you do not remember the exact name of the function or class.**
> That sounds like a perfect task for a semantic search engine, and Qdrant is here to help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set up [Qdrant](https://qdrant.tech) to help developers find the code they need, with context. Using semantic
search, developers can find the code samples that can help them do their day-to-day work. With this Qdrant semantic 
search interface, developers can find sample code with:

- Imprecise keywords
- Inexact names for functions or classes
```

The demo uses [Qdrant source code](https://github.com/qdrant/qdrant) to build an end-to-end code search application that
helps you find the right piece of code, even if you have never contributed to the project. We implemented an end-to-end
process, including data chunking, indexing, and search. Code search is a very specific task in which the programming 
language syntax matters as much as the function, class, variable names, and the docstring, describing what and why. 
While the latter is more of a traditional natural language processing task, the former requires a specific approach. 

> Thus, we used two separate neural encoders to handle both cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, we use the following neural encoders for our use cases:
```

- `all-MiniLM-L6-v2` - one of the gold standard models for natural language processing
- `microsoft/unixcoder-base` - a model trained specifically on a code dataset

### Chunking and indexing process

> Source code might be considered semi-structured data, as it has an inherent structure, defined by the programming
> language syntax, and some good practices of the team that created it. If your codebase doesn't seem to have any 
> structure, it might be a good idea to start with some refactoring, before building a search mechanism on top of it. 
> However, that already gives us a hint on how to approach the problem. We can divide the code into chunks, with each
> chunk being a specific function, struct, enum, or any other code structure that might be considered as a whole.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semantic search works best with _structured_ source code repositories, with good syntax, as well as best practices
as defined by the authoring team. If your code base needs help, start by dividing the code into chunks. Each
chunk should correspond to a specific function, struct, enum, or any other code structure that might be considered as a whole.
```

There is a separate model-specific logic that extracts the most important parts of the code and converts them
into a format that the neural network can understand. Only then, the encoded representation is indexed in the Qdrant 

> collection, along with a JSON structure describing that snippet as a payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
collection, along with a JSON structure describing that snippet as a payload.

To that end, we work with the following models. The combination is the "best of both worlds."
```

# Code search with Qdrant

Developers need a code search tool that helps them find the right piece of code. In this README, we describe how
you can set up a tool that provides code results, in context.

## Online version

See our code search tool "in action." Navigate to 
**[https://code-search.qdrant.tech/](https://code-search.qdrant.tech/)**. We've prepopulated the demo with Qdrant 
codebase. You can see the results, in context, even with relatively vague search terms.

## Prerequisites

To run this demo on your own system, install and/or set up the following components:

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/learn/get-started)
- [rust-analyzer](https://rust-analyzer.github.io/)

Docker and Docker Compose setup depends on your operating system. Please refer to the official documentation for
instructions on how to install them. Both Rust and rust-analyzer can be installed with the following commands:

```shell
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
rustup component add rust-analyzer
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If not already installed, you may need to install `rustup` first. In addition, make sure to install the `stable` version.

```

Author: Actually, the first line would install the `rustup` binary, so it should be available. Let me run it in a fresh environment.

find them in the [`tools`](/tools) directory.

The demo is, as always, open source, so feel free to check the code in this repository to see how it is implemented.

## Usage

As every other semantic search system, the demo requires a few steps to be set up. First of all, the data has to be
ingested, so we can then use the created index for our queries.

### Data indexing

Qdrant is used as a search engine, so you will need to have it running somewhere. You can either use the local container
or the Cloud version. If you want to use the local version, you can start it with the following command:

```shell
docker run -p 6333:6333 -p 6334:6334 \
    -v $(pwd)/qdrant_storage:/qdrant/storage:z \
    qdrant/qdrant
```

However, the easiest way to start using Qdrant is to use our Cloud version. You can sign up for a free tier 1GB cluster 
at [https://cloud.qdrant.io/](https://cloud.qdrant.io/).

Once the environment is set up, you can configure the Qdrant instance and build the index by running the following 
commands:

```shell
export QDRANT_URL="http://localhost:6333"

# For the Cloud service you need to specify the api key as well
# export QDRANT_API_KEY="your-api-key"

> bash tools/download_and_index.sh

Reviewer: You could `chmod u+x tools/download_and_index.sh`
- Then you wouldn't need to preface with `bash` 

When I run the script, I run into these issues:

- "tools/index_qdrant.sh: line 14: python: command not found"
  - I've installed Python 3.10, which includes `python3` as an executable
  - While I addressed the problem with a soft link (`ln -s /usr/bin/python3 /usr/local/bin/python`), I'm not sure everyone would catch that error
  
I then run the `download_and_index.sh` script again, and I get this error:

`error: 'rust-analyzer' is not installed for the toolchain 'stable-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu'`

I discuss this more in a comment earlier in this README.

```

The indexing process might take a while, as it needs to encode all the code snippets and send them to the Qdrant.

### Search service

Once the index is built, you can start the search service by running the following commands:

```shell
docker-compose up
```

The UI will be available at [http://localhost:8000/](http://localhost:8000/). This is how it should look like:

> 

Reviewer: Wait... this implies you can't get the UI on the cloud setup, as suggested around lines 190-210

Choices:
- Show the URL for the "Search Service" UI for a cloud setup
  - You could point to https://code-search.qdrant.tech as an alternative
- Require the use of Docker to make this demo work

Author: There are two separate services - Qdrant server and the frontend UI application. No matter if you use local Qdrant or the cloud version, the UI will be available at the same URL. Also, Docker is already put in the very beginning as a requirement.
